this right here is the Huawei mate XT I
spent over $5,000 to get one it's the
world's first triple folding phone the
thing is kind of mind-blowing but as
I've started to dig deeper I realized
there is also something sinister going
on with it so this is how the thing
comes presented iPhone box size
reference W there's no doubt about it
this is absolutely incredible so right
on top here are the Huawei free buds 5 I
gave these things a 7 out of 10 when I
tested all the band Huawei products got
a car charger 8 watts pluming NE that's
generous but then I suppose equally at
the same time this is the kind of
experience that you would expect anyone
who's willing to pay thousands of
dollars for a first generation product
is a true fan and Huawei needs to make
sure that those fans are looked after so
in here we got tips for the earphones a
bunch of papers and then a carbon fiber
case okay we'll come back to this what's
in here oh what so you got the mains
charger which is only 66 WS how do you
have a Mains charger with less power
than the car charger and not one but two
cables a USBC to USBC and then a USBC to
usba
a now before the whole we didn't even
need onefold why on Earth would we need
twofold Army comes to get me hear me out
because there is something I think is
absolutely amazing about this ever since
the very first foldable phones we have
had a problem I think it's fair to say
that most people are interested in the
idea of a phone that could become a
tablet at the snap of their fingers a
massive screen to watch movies or play
your games on but the reason that very
few people follow through and actually
buy these folding phones like the ones
from Samsung is price aside if you want
to make it usable while it's folded it's
got to be tall like a phone but then
that means that when you open it it's
got to be square and because videos and
games are all designed to be widescreen
it barely makes your experience bigger
than just using a normal phone and so
the only thing left for foldable is to
be better at crazy multitasking but
that's Niche and just be honest most
people who could afford one of these
already have a laptop or a proper tablet
for that anyway but that is where this
Huawei comes in so you open once from
here and yeah in this form it is
basically the same as a normal foldable
AKA pretty useless for most types of
content but look what happens when we
open one more time the extra width from
this one extra fold is an absolute
GameChanger I mean like this is an iPad
it's widely considered one of the best
devices for catching up with your m
movies on an airplane but now we have a
phone that gives you practically the
same viewable screen area when watching
content except this one folds into
something resembling this what year are
we living in and what Huawei has done to
achieve this is actually just as cool so
this is Samsung zold 5 and when folded
it is 13.4 mm thick Samsung's very
latest is 12.1 mm huawei's triple
folding phone is just 12.8 they've
crumbed in a whole extra layer this is
like 2D versus 3D while barely making
the phone thicker at all and what that
means is when the thing is unfolded this
is 3.6 mm thick obviously it is easier
to make things thinner when you have
more space this way but 3.6 I did a
video a few years ago on the thinnest
smartphone in the world and that was
4.75 and the current iPhone is 8.3 for
reference it genuinely feels like some
sort of sci-fi movie prop and I can't
quite believe this is a final product
you know where it really hits home just
how slim this is is when you realize
that every single port button and cutout
looks like it barely fits on the device
not to mention that you can really tell
they've put some love into this design
like can you see this gold accent ring
around the camera well that is
apparently handd designed with almost 80
layers of stacked steel very much like
actually those highly prized Damascus
knives and what it means is that every
single phone looks just a little bit
different and that's cool so is this
what foldable phones should have been
like all along is this what Samsung
should be making starting from next year
Well it certainly looks that way on
first glance cuz let's say that I'm
using a normal bold folding phone I
could use it in one hand like this I
could use it in two hands like this or I
could use it on a table and it's half
folded state but what can you do on this
well for starters you've got the normal
phone mode you got the screen on the
front you got the camera on the back
this is effectively the same as using a
normal folded phone folded up so then
you open it up and again functionally at
this point we are still identical with
what you get with a normal folding phone
and also like a normal folding phone you
can use the screen that's currently
facing the back to allow the person
you're shooting to see themselves and
also to allow you to take high quality
selfies using your phone's rear set of
cameras damn that looks good but then
you get the third screen involved and
this way you can start to do some very
interesting stuff like you can use two
screens to watch what you're doing while
using the third screen to angle your
camera you could actually have two
screens to work on and then use the
bottom screen folded up like that as a
stand and then you add this case into
the mix which in itself already has a
stand that can rotate to any angle that
you want it to and you start to think to
yourself I can use this phone however I
can think to use this phone this is what
I mean when I say that the extra screen
here is like the difference between 2D
and 3D because the possibilities aren't
just additive they are multiplicative
and they've managed to do all of this
without even sacrificing on the cameras
I mean you can probably tell by the fact
that this camera bump is half the
thickness of the phone but this is on
the upper end of foldable phone cameras
and even though it is somewhat early
days on the software like not that many
things are fully optimized for three
screens it does feel like they have
thought about the user experience like
for example when you want to unlock the
pin screen comes up on the side that you
swipe up with so this is interesting
enough that yes I would love to see what
Samsung and xiaomi and other foldable
firm makers can do with this type of
form factor cuz while it does create a
number of issues in itself they're all
solvable and what it does is it fixes
the one big one and actually makes
foldables useful for the masses now that
is not to say that Huawei gets a free
pass because while the trifold design
could work this specific attempt at one
does not I mean the smaller issues are
already something there's the fact that
yes there is absolutely a honeymoon
phase with this where you wake up every
day with a spring in your step you turn
over to your wife sorry phone you open
it and you Marvel at how on Earth Huawei
fit this much device into 3.6 mm of
thickness when unfolded but as the days
go on you come to another realization
that because this thing is now twice as
much effort to unfold you're going to
end up using it a lot more just like
this and when you use it folded up like
this you're basically just holding a
brick phone that happens to weigh 300 G
cuz even though the thing isn't much
thicker than normal phones it's the
hinges having to have two hinges on this
means that a higher proportion of the
device has to be made of densely
compacted metal and speaking of hinges
they don't fold both ways so the front
folds outwards whereas the rear folds
inwards and if you get that wrong even
once with a little too much pressure
well it will still fold just
irreversibly I've seen this happen
enough times that I have decided I won't
be the guy who tries it and it ain't
just the hinges you also have to be very
careful with the screen folding phone
screens are much easier to scratch than
normal phone screens and there are lots
of situations when using this where you
have to to expose some parts of this
pressure screen to the elements and on
that note how precious well you know
that I paid $5,000 which is obviously
not the retail price of this thing it's
the I managed to scalp one and sell it
on eBay for profit price but even the
retail price in China where it's mainly
on sale is $22,800 or
$3,400 for the top spec model and
because this screen is such a unique
component the repair costs for this
piece alone are $11,000 and even when
you're not looking after the screens
you're looking at the creases on them do
you notice they're actually not the
worst we've seen but by no means
invisible well that's partly because
when you add more hinges you can't make
each hinge as good a good hinge that
doesn't crease the display takes up
valuable space and since the entire
priority here is to compress the design
as much as possible something's got to
give but as I was saying all of these
issues potentially solvable and to be
fair expected when you're trying
something that's this different none of
this stuff makes this phone a write off
there is a deeper Huawei problem and I'm
not even talking about the over 50
pre-installed apps or the fact that if
you want to do literally anything Google
you have to do it via one of these Shady
applications that try to convince Google
you're not coming from a Huawei phone
like the most common one is Gbox which
signs into Google by identifying as a
Samsung Galaxy a22 I know because I got
the email confirmation for it here's the
thing if you've watched any Huawei
launch events recently you'll have seen
that Richard U who leads them keeps
saying that Huawei is far ahead of its
competitors this company feels hyper
aware of what Apple and Samsung are
doing and wants to make it very publicly
clear to Chinese citizens that those
companies are slacking in comparison and
you might look at something like this
and say you know what actually yeah I
don't see Samsung's trifold phone even
if they have already used the letter z
for a phone that looks nothing like a z
Hua is ahead but I think the reason
they're doing this is because this is
all they can do see the Huawei us band
in 2019 completely crippled this company
cutting off access to their suppliers
from all around the world basically
means that in some ways huawei's Tech
has frozen in time like look at this the
chip that powered huawei's P10 this is
their 2017 flagship phone is based off a
16 nanm fabrication process the lower
that number the better cuz it basically
means the chip is more efficient so
let's look at next year the P20 Pro wow
huge Improvement 16 nanm all the way
down to 10 NM and again with the next
phone the P30 Pro 10 nanm all the way
down to 7 this is the year the US band
struck and if you look at Huawei phones
since then in 5 years they haven't
actually managed to move past 7 nanom
now don't get me wrong huawei's chips
have been refined since then they are
better but it's just that the Baseline
Tech is now far behind the rest of the
world and I think this is huawei's way
around that to not really talk about the
chips or the rest of the tech like the
storage speeds that are also stuck in
the past but instead to try and come
across like they're not behind but
actually still ahead by creating a new
design otherwise it might start to look
like they're just releasing the same
phones again and again and clearly is
working I mean this thing has racked up
over 7 million pre-orders in China alone
that's like that's like Samsung flagship
phone levels of performance and it has
people running around inside Apple
Stores doing this whatever this is but
here's what this dated China focused
Tech actually means so let's try opening
up Call of Duty war zone
[Music]
okay yeah that's actually completely
dead on the loading screen okay let's
try a different game so this one boots
up but it's pretty clear that this isn't
designed for running top tier modern
applications well on a screen like this
and that's not even talking about the
battery which is actually quite good for
a phone at 5,600 Mah hours but bad for a
tablet it's like half of the capacity
that you would expect so even though you
have to give credit to Huawei for
releasing this not even as a slightly
juny concept phone but a genuinely
usable consumer grade product I still
wouldn't actually recommend anyone ditch
their normal bar phone it's still got
that slightly stuck in the middle of two
things and does neither particularly
well syndrome which is probably why the
initial frenzy of everyone buying the
things up to resell them at twice the
price is starting to cool down rather
quickly now let's be honest though the
main reason people are buying this phone
is to flex on people literally so let's
use this video sponsor the insta 360 X4
camera to catch that in so here's what I
think is absolutely amazing about this
camera it captures every single thing
around you all at once in 8k resolution
by the way so you don't need to angle it
you don't need to check the feed to make
sure you're not missing anything all you
need to do is to hold it or put it in a
backpack and this is what that footage
looks like it automatically gets rid of
the invisible selfie stick so all you
can see is this like drone floating
directly in front of you perfectly
locked onto you but the software is the
best bit cuz let's say that you're
looking through the footage afterwards
and you catch something that you want to
follow like in this case this person
looking at me like the fool that I am
acting as you can literally just tap on
their face and your camera tracks them
automatically after you've already taken
your video and if you don't want to do
any editing at all there's even an AI
button that automatically selects the
best bits for you link below to get
yourself the X4 with a exclusive 10%
discount as well as a free 3 m selfie
stick to get your own drone like shots
like this